
Athelas
Description: A small plant grows here, with long, pointed leaves and flowers
at its top (35/900)
When crushed: some long, slender green leaves (2/700)
Location: some NE from Harlond; near mottled snake N from Forlond; in the
Old Fornost; OER in brushes; some se from Rivendell
Used in: Antidote
Baneberries
Description: A dark green, foul-smelling shrub grows to about a foot in height
Loads: some white, egg-shaped berries (5/4000)
NOTE: loads at certain yeartime only (winter)
Location: in the vines secretplace n from Tharbad; 6e from Amanrandil
Temple; some se (across river) from tall orc oak tree; on way
to tower e from thorns/hedge; ABR - some ne from tower; some ne
from moors; DT pine forest; 4 n from OER near Warrens; some
s from WC
Used in: Drake-slumber poison
Belladonna
Description: A large shrub covered with dark violet berries grow here
Loads: some violet berries (5/350)
Location: BM area; Shire; Old Forest bonfire; NOC area
Used in: Belladonna poison
Blackberries
Description: A large thorny branched shrub is growing here
Loads: some blackberries (4/12)
Location: very common in Shire
Used in: Antidote
Blackcurrant
Description: A shrub with maple-like leaves is growing here
Loads: a handful of blackcurrant berries (7/500)
Location: very common in BM area; Shire
Used in: Soothing-draught
Bluebells
Description: A dense carpet of blue flowers dip their heads in the breeze (10/1, nosell)
Location: Tbad area; Lothlorien
Blueberries
Description: A low shrub with bright green, oblong leaves is growing here
Loads: some blueberries (10/10)
Location: inside Harlond; Shire
Bulrushes
Description: Clusters of slender stems and tall leaves thrive in the mud and shallows (35/1,
nosell)
When dropped: A hollow length of stout reed lies here (50/2)
Location: zone e of Harlond, Dunland near oak tree
Buttercups
Description: Yellow flowers, with grey-green foliage, grow in clusters here (10/1, nosell)
Location: zone e of Harlond; Eregion; Dunland
Cardamom
Description: A small flower grows here, with a purple bloom and wide leaves (10/900)
When crushed: grey-brown powder (5/900)
Location: BM area; Nen-i-sul; ABR; Lothlorien; NOC area
Used in: Orc Balm
Cherries
Description: A large shrub grows here, its branches loosely spreading
Loads: some cherries (10/10)
Location: Lothlorien
Cinnamon
Description: A bag of cinnamon lies here (5/1275)
Location: GH herbalist
Used in: Seeing, Shadow
Clover
Description: A small patch of clover grows here (2/60)
Location: very common herb
Used in: Travelling, Walking
Cloves
Description: Some small cloves are lying here (2/500)
Location: GH and Rivendell herbalists
Used in: Walking
Conker
Description: A tall, stately, dome-topped tree grows here
Loads: a green spine capsule (30/4, nosell)
Location: Shire - near Hobbiton; Eregion
Comfrey
Description: A sturdy plant grows to a height of almost a yard (200/3600)
When crushed: a bulbous root (17/3600)
Loads: Midnight Forest nw from the Ford
Coriander
Description: A man's-waist high evergreen shrub grows here, with bright green branches
(1000/1000)
Loads: several splayed leaves (2/1000)
Location: GH and Rivendell herbalists; "A dense thicket" - northeastern part of brush
Daisy-chain
Description: A band of small flowers is lying here (10/20)
Location: Loads on Dunlending children
Elanor
Description: Delicate golden blooms adorn the ground like a cascade of stars (10/1,
nosell)
Location: Lothlorien
Ferns
Description: A cluster of dark green, feathery fronds flourishes in the shade (15/1,
nosell)
Location: RTT; Dunland; Dunland Ancient Forest; Lothlorien
Figwort (Turtlehead)
Description: A tall plant grows here, with grey-green leaves and grey flowers (250/1750)
When crushed: some grey petals (1/1750)
Location: Midgewater Marshes, on road to Tbad near Tbad, some SE of Khuzur,
Lothlorien
Used in: Antidote
Foxglove
Description: A slender plant, with white flowers at the top, grows here (150/1800)
When crushed: some white petals (1/1800)
Location: BM area; Shire; Old Forest bonfire
Foxtail
Description: A bushy plant grows here, with tall clusters of yellow flowers (230/4000)
When crushed: some yellow petals (1/4000)
Location: s of Tharbad
Ginseng
Description: A slender plant grows here, a single cluster of flowers atop its narrow stem (75/6000)
When crushed: a man-like root (5/6000)
Location: three load places near Last Bridge: 1) 2e 4s, 2) 2e n 7-9e 1-2n;
3) 2e n 9e s; also somewhere in Misties near Moria (???)
NB: root also loads even if plant is not loaded, so try 'reveal root'
even if you don't see plant
Used in: Travelling
Goosegrass
Description: A small and tough weed grows here (75/150)
When crushed: a crushed stem (3/125)
Location: Shire; Dunland
Gooseberry preserve
* Description (inv): some sticky gooseberry preserve (50/10)
Location: clay jar near Harlond; same jar in MA area
Grapes
Description: Some plump of juicy grapes are growing here (50/6)
Location: inside Harlond; zone N from Forlond
Green mushroom
Description: A small, sickly green mushroom grows here (20/2000)
Location: secret with shadow in BM; secret behind goblin leader in goblin caves
Used in: Psylonia poison
Hemlock
Description: A tall plant with a perfectly smooth stem gracefully marks the landscape
(20/1000)
Location: Old Forest bonfire; sw of Wuda; Warrens Canyon floor; NOC area
Used in: Drake-slumber poison, Hemlock poison
Hollyberries
Description: A bright green holly bush is growing here
Loads: some hollyberries (4/10)
Location: very common in Khuzur and Eregion area
Honeysuckle
Description: A large shrub grows here, filling the air with a heavy scent
Loads: a handful of fragile flowers (11/3500)
Location: some s from road to GH - entrance to Nagrorh; "Loudwater Plains" - 2s2e from
crossing in the trail (to DT)
Inkberries
Description: A holly bush with dark green leaves is growing here
Loads: some inkberries (4/10)
Location: very common in Eregion
Used in: Psylonia poison, Hemlock poison
Ivory rose
Description: A beautiful, ivory coloured rose with a tint of crimson is blossoming here (2/15)
Location: near Khuzur; in Dunland near entrance to NOOC.
Juniper
Description: A short evergreen plant, with slightly bluish needles, grows here
Loads: a cluster of hard, round, black berries (4/10)
Location: Shire - hills of Scary, 3e from "A Spring" (loads at certain yeartime only);
some ne of Harlond; Lothlorien; ne3nw from entrance to tall orc;
near NOC; 2w5n3w2ne3ne2s from door into the Dark Tower; 12e from
eastern Evil Priest
Used in: Clear-thoughts, Walking
Lissuin
Description: A grouping of soft pink flowers radiates a sweet fragrance (10/1, nosell)
Location: Ost-In-Edhil
Marjoram
Description: A thin, hairy plant, with small, oval leaves, grows here (120/225)
When crushed: a pinch of pale-green, crushed leaves (2/275)
Location: Gamgee's garden; NE corner of zone NE from Bree; 8enes10e from moors
Used in: Walking
Mauve petals
Description: Some dried mauve petals can be found here (1/987)
Locarion: on Big John's experienced smuggler, in sack; Shire, in the underwater
hermit cave, in sack
Used in: Clear-thoughts
Milkweed
Description: A slender plant grows here, with clusters of tiny pink flowers (180/2000)
When crushed: a sticky mass of stems, leaves and sap (100/1400)
Location: Shire - some ne from Rushey; Eregion; Dunland; Warrens area;
some e from Rivendell
Used in: Drake-slumber poison
Mint
Description: A clean fragrance drifts up from a thick clump of leaves (30/50)
Location: RTT by Morthan; Tbad area; Eregion
Niphredil
Description: Several blooms of snow-white and palest green cover the ground (10/1, nosell)
Location: Lothlorien
Orchid
Description: An orchid of light violet petals blossoms nearby (2/60)
Location: Lothlorien, Tbad area
Paprika (pepper)
Description: A small pile of pungent red powder lies here (7/1000)
Location: GH and Rivendell herbalists
Used in: Skillful-oil
Phosporescent moss
Description: A patch of moss grows here on a wet, flat stone (15/500, nosell)
Location: slug cave near road to GH; spirit castle and witch tower near
Fornost; secret down in Farmer Maggot's barn
Used in: Seeing
Poppy (Moon)
Description: Some orange-red blossoms grow amid grey-green foliage (10/4000)
(some orange-red flowers)
Location: w from dt in FOY area; Misties east of Moria
Used in: Drake-slumber poison
Red (agaric) mushroom
Description: A bright red mushroom is growing here (20/250)
Location: common
Used in: Belladonna poison, Drake-slumber poison, Psylonia poison
Red rose
Description: A detached red rose is lying here (2/50, nosell)
When crushed: some red petals (1/24)
Location: zone N from Forlond; inside Harlond/Bree; entrance to Fornost witch
Used in: Skillful-oil
Rosemary
Description: A woody evergreen plant grows here, with many stems reaching upward (365/225)
(a woody, many-stemmed plant)
When crushed: several needlelike leaves (2/200)
Location: BM area; Shire; White sands near road to Fornost; little east of Wuda;
some s from Tbad; some e from marshes near Bree
Used in: Seeing, Shadow, Skillful-oil
Sage (Salvei)
Description: A waist-high evergreen shrub grows here, with thick, reaching branches
(500/225)
Loads: some grey-green leaves (2/100)
Location: GH area; near road to GH; Shire; some w of Wuda; 8enes10es from moors
Used in: Clear-thoughts, Soothing-draught, Orc Balm
Simbelmyne
Description: A cluster of white star-shaped forget-me-nots fluorish here in reminiscence
(50/100, nosell)
Location: inside Bree; ABR
Strawberries
Description: Some delicious wild strawberries grow on the ground (20/10)
Location: BM area; some e of Moria; Dunland
Tarragon (Estragon)
Description: A small evergreen plant grows here, its woody stems reaching two feet (20/450)
(a woody, stemmed plant)
When crushed: a handful of narrow leaves (2/450)
Location: at Oak trees; some s from road to GH; Shire; e from entrance to Wyrdda;
some se of NOC; n3e2n from northern entrace to tall orc
Used in: Travelling, Orkish draught
Thistles
Description: Prickly, white-stemned plants, with blue flower heads grow in abundance (10/1,
nosell)
Location: Eregion; Dunland; Lothlorien
Thyme
Description: A low, many-branched shrub covers the ground here (125/400)
When crushed: some scented crushed leaves (2/400)
Location: Shire; Eregion; n2e2sw7swsw2s4e from Eoghha
Used in: Clear-thoughts, Soothing-draught
Tincture of oil
Description: A small tincture of oil has been placed on the ground (185/1000)
Location: Fornost herbalist
Used in: Skillful-oil
Valerian
Description: A flowering plant grows here, its fern-like foliage dancing in the breeze
(230/1200)
When crushed: a foul-smelling root (10/1200)
Location: up from giant lizard in BM area; south-western Shire; near Rivendell;
ABR some sw from tower
Used in: Drake-slumber poison
Vanilla
Description: A long brown bean, emitting a pleasant scent, is here (2/2000)
Location: GH and Rivendell herbalists
Used in: Skillful-oil
Water-lily
Description: A blooming water-lily floats on the surface of the water (10/150)
When crushed: some white petals (1/150)
Location: inside Forlond; in marshes near Bree; near RTT; Dunland
Used in: Antidote, Soothing-draught, Orc Balm
White rose
Description: A detached white rose is lying here (2/50, nosell)
Location: inside Harlond/Bree
 ==================================
There is total of 17 herblores known to me in Mume. Here's the list of them, with loading spots. You'll find out the components yourself once you get the lore :)

Antidote
Loads on Hillmen Village Chief west of Dark Tower. After mixing components, you gain brown bottle, and after quaffing it, all poisons are removed from you. Also, you gain some extra poison save for some time.

Arachnia
Loads on crazed dwarf on top of Moria Walls. After mixing compnents, you gain a vial, with what you can poison your weapon or arrows. When someone is affected by arachnia poison, he will fall asleep in 2 ticks (talking about playerpoison here, mobs create poisons with less effective powers). Also, during those 2 ticks, victims moves and mana are drained.

Baker
Find lonely giant in shire, and pat him. He will guide you afterwards. Components for this lore are: sack of flour, honey, and 3 eggs. After mixing those in kit, you gain 8 bannocks.

Belladonna Poison
Loads on suspicios assassin near muranog entrance north of windsept ground. Mixing components will create a vial with mild poison (type poison), witch slows down victims regen slightly. Mostly useless.

Psylonia Poison
Loads on goblin shaman in goblin caves south east of dark tower. Mixing components will create a vial with psylonia poison. It's effects drain victims mana mostly.

Travelling
Ranger north west of neni-sul bridge teaches this lore to well-travelled persons (need 3k tps per level, lev 21 minimum). He gives a quest, which may involve following things: white bear fur, caverwing tail, sickly green mushroom, ice-demon heart. Ice-demon lives near new orc caves, white bear can be found near moria and near redhorn pass. Cavern-wings live some west of moria west gate. Sickly-green mushroom loads several places on arda (most known one is goblin caves between DT and NOC). Effects of this lore raise your moveregen and your maximum moves, so it's very useful for thieves and warriors.

Walking
Aldereon the ancient noldo who lives in elven village north of road to gh between greenholm and gh teaches this lore. You have to deliver several letters for him to different persons (the higher level, the harder target). Effects of this lore increase your moveregen for some time.

Venom poison
Loads on suspicios assassin near Mormaeg entrance north of windsept grounds. Effecs of this poison drain victims hps, victim suffers extensive damage for next couple ticks.

Soothing-Draught
Nordri the shopkeeper in blue mountains teaches this lore to anyone, who completes his quest. He will ask you to bring him items and plants, depending on your level. Effects of this lore increase greatly your hp-regen, aswell as your max hps for some ticks.

Seeing
Witch, who lives east of Fornost, may rarely load a book teaching this lore. Effects of this lore give you night vision for 24 ticks. Also, it raises your per by 2 for 24 ticks.

Shadows
Spirit that sits in library in spirit castle west of road to fornost may rarely carry book teaching this lore. Effects of this lore give you detect invisible and invisibility for 4 nights. It lowers and raises some of your stats for that time also.

Clear-thought
Bloodwight may extremely rarely load a parchment teaching this lore. Effects of this lore raise your maximum mana by 20%, and it speeds up your manaregen greatly for some ticks. After couple ticks, you experience negative effect, your max-mana is lowered, and is your manaregen for more couple ticks.

Skil-ful oil
Erestor teaches this lore to anyone, who brings him enemy dark artifact (hbm and elf-hewer should work). Effects of this lore give you +5 db and +5 ob for 4 ticks, followed by another 4 ticks with -5 ob and -5 db.

Orkish-draught
Gruksh the Orkish butcher teaches this lore only to orcs, who bring him opal or red ruby. After mixing components, you gain 'a flask of orkish draught'. Quaffing this draught gives you 15-35 moves, and you lose some hps. Pukes using draught may also get poisoned (type poison).

Drake-slumber
Loads in scaly beast area, in eastern side on the beasts (also accessible through e-priest). Prevents scaly beast from crushing down the walls in his cavern. Components are extremely hard to get, some loading at certain time of year, some are hidden.

Orc-Balm
Thrakghash the Orkish Shaman in wnoc teaches this lore to orcs that bring him a puke artifact (Sting, Glamdring etc). Gives some HP regen for some ticks.

Hemlock poison
Loads on Wuda the Dunlending Chief in dunland. Allows one to create a mild poison whichs effects include lowering str, dex and con by one and draining some hps/mana/moves of the victim.
 
